---
title: Don't Sell Yourself To Cheaply
description: Meditation for December 10, 2021
quotes:
  - quote:
        content: "I say, let no one rob me of a single day who isn't going to make a full return on the loss."
        author: Seneca
        source: On Tranquility Of Mind, 1.11b
last_updated_at: 2021-12-10T07:34:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_08682BF02A82.jpg
---

The authors of :daily-stoic point out that people will spend more money when they use a credit card in lieu of 
pulling out the cash they worked so hard for. The credit card companies know this psychological truth. This is part of 
their *'modus operandi'*.

We do something similar with our time when we use it freely without thought about mortality. For someone who does not 
like to make plans outside of work (that's me), this is a new way of thinking. It makes perfect sense. A harsh reminder. 
Before the start of each day, we need to recognize that we are mortal. We **can** be taken from this world at any 
moment. After acknowledging this reality, we can plan our day accordingly. Make good use of our time. This doesn't mean 
our entire day has to be planned out to the minute. Merely this is a simple way to minimize wasting our time on 
something unworthy.

### Conclusion

:daily-stoic give a modern twist to Seneca's words, stating they are the equivalent of *"cutting up [our] credit 
cards and switching to cash"*. My goal is to put this plan into action. I need to utilize my personal journal as a tool
for the day. Part of that is doing a better job of scheduling my *days off*. When I look at how I am spending 
my time, my first question should be *"Is this worth my time? Am I getting a fair return on my time?"*
