---
title: Dignity And Bravery
description: Meditation for December 11, 2020
quotes:
    - quote:
        content: "As Cicero says, we hate gladiators if they are quick to save their lives by any means; we favor them if they show contempt for their lives."
        author: Seneca
        source: On Tranquility Of Mind, 1.11b
last_updated_at: 2020-12-11T07:43:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_3F1614203578.jpg
---

Today's lesson did not go the exact direction I thought it was going to go based on the words of Seneca. We are provided 
a short embarrassing story of President Lyndon Johnson. I didn't know much about Johnson at the time. Succeeded Kennedy 
after his assassination, entered the US into the Vietnam conflict, championed several civil rights causes and was known 
to be ambitious, aggressive and tireless when he wanted something.

:daily-stoic talks about how Johnson reportedly worked hard to avoid service in World War II, but late in life he 
claimed to be a war hero. There is a little veracity in their statements I found out as I dug a little deeper into LBJ's 
history.

I digress. The point of the days' lesson is that bravery is not always measured by physical acts or by violence. We can 
show bravery in many other ways and be respected. Cowardice on the other hand, is not an admirable trait. It is 
difficult to look up to a coward.

### Conclusion

What drives someone to cowardice? The likely reason is self-preservation. While being a coward may find a way to 
protect you, the consequences can be damaging. We are not talking about just being physically brave. Courage to condemn 
or champion a worthy cause. Courage to make yourself uncomfortable so that others can feel comfortable. Go! Be Brave. 
Be dignified.
