---
title: The Beat Goes On
description: Meditation for December 12, 2021
quotes: 
    - quote:
        content: "Walk the long gallery of the past, of empires and kingdoms succeeding each other without number. And you can also see the future, for surely it will be exactly the same, unable to deviate from the present rhythm. It's all one whether we've experienced forty years or an aeon. What more is there to see?"
        author: Marcus Aurelius
        source: Meditations, 7.49
last_updated_at: 2021-12-12T08:13:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_48B9B0E8AD99.jpg
---

What a chilling message for today. History has recorded a few empires or governments that have lasted almost a thousand 
years or more. Most modern nations are not so lucky. Marcus Aurelius knew the history of the Roman Republic and of the 
histories of other empires. He knew the Roman Empire would someday be something else.

The history of nations has been fascinating to me. How much longer will this nation (the United States of America) 
continue. There are those who are drunk with patriotism who will argue they will die for their country. This is easy to
believe when it is a foreign threat, but what about when the threat is internal? The internal forces that currently have 
power in this country are wealth, greed, and ignorance. 

In the last few weeks, Americans have heard talk of political coercion, martial law, and suspension of the Constitution.

History has taught us that nations and empires come and go. Ours country is no different and will face the same fate. 
The only real question is *"Will that next iteration be something better or worse for the people within?"*.

### Conclusion 

Just as we all as individuals have a beginning and an end, so to do nations. While this is not a fear we need to dwell 
on for the coming weeks, months or years, the eventuality is not something that we should ignore either. No amount of 
nationalism, patriotism or dissent can stop the nature of this cycle. 
