---
title: Don't Mind Me, I'm Only Dying Slow
description: Meditation for December 2, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "Let each thing you would do, say or intend be like that of a dying person."
      author: Marcus Aurelius
      source: Meditations, 2.11.1
last_updated_at: 2020-12-02T07:23:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_5023.jpg
---

{% blockquote "Tis impossible to be sure of any thing but Death and Taxes", 
"<strong>\"The Cobbler of Preston\"</strong> by Christopher Bullock (1716)" %}

While death is certain for all of us, how often do we contemplate our mortality? In my life, there is a specific type of 
person who feels comfortable talking about death. That is someone who has experienced death. 

My uncle was such a person. As child, I only remember he was young and reckless. He continued his wild ways until he had 
a stroke at an extremely early age. He survived the stroke, but was unable to speak or write as a result.

This was not however, a barrier for him to communicate. I remember visiting him when his mom (my grandmother) passed 
away. His near death experience had changed him in positive ways. He was no longer afraid of death and actually was 
comforted by the thought of dying. He had renounced his wild ways, his view of life was simplified until his death a few 
years later.

It was difficult to understand how powerful my uncles new-found perspective of life was at the time. 

As time passes, the hour glass of life feels like it is draining faster. When I reflect on my uncle, his view of life 
stands out now. How do we come to accept a perspective on life like my uncles without experiencing some life altering 
event? Prayer? Reflection? Meditation?

### Conclusion

We might not be able to have a profound sense of mortality without a near death experience, but my hope is that daily 
prayer, reflection and meditation will strengthen my view on daily life. We can't afford to be ignorant to the reality 
that we are dying a little more each day. Just like there is no love without hate or joy without sorry, there is no life 
without death.
