---
title: Don't Burn The Candle At Both Ends
description: Meditation for December 25, 2021
quotes: 
    - quote:
        content: "The mind must be given relaxation—it will rise improved and sharper after a good break. Just as rich fields must not be forced—for they will quickly lose their fertility if never given a break—so constant work on the anvil will fracture the force of the mind. But it regains its powers if it is set free and relaxed for a while. Constant work gives rise to a certain kind of dullness and feebleness in the rational soul."
        author: Seneca
        source: On Tranquility Of Mind, 17.5
last_updated_at: 2021-12-25T07:35:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_4C713F1B64D8.jpg
---

Merry Christmas!

While our brain is an organ, we would do well to also consider our mind as a muscle. As such, our mind has limitations 
and can become fatigued or harmed when over-worked, strained, not given proper rest just as our muscles.

Often as a developer, I can become so focused on a project that I will spend hours without a break. This can happen for 
different reasons. Either I can find myself in a groove, a flow where I don't want to stop for fear that my momentum 
will cease. Or, most often, I am stuck, unable to move forward to complete my task at hand. 

In either case, I have found getting away from my computer, desk and office is essential for a productive work day. 
While work is going well, taking a break at intervals, makes me more efficient. Taking a break is even more important 
when the work has stalled. It is often while away from the work, I am able to take of the blinders off and see the 
solution from a fresh perspective.

I have joked with Pauline, there have been many occasions that I have been sitting in the bathroom doing *my business* 
when a solution comes to mind. It is amusing to me to think of how many prominent solutions may have been resolved *on 
the throne*.

### Conclusion

When we are faced with the stresses of trying to focus, straining to keep our patience, we should take a moment and 
stop. Step away. Take a short break. Clear the mind. You may find when you return, you will have clarity, energy and 
creativity to help complete the task at hand.

