---
title: You Don't Own That
description: Meditation for December 4, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "Anything that can be prevented, taken away, or coerced is not a person's own—but those things that can't be blocked are their own."
      author: Epictetus
      source: Discourses, 3.24.3
last_updated_at: 2020-12-04T7:43:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - mortality
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_1814.jpg
---

It would be interesting to know what life would be like without marketing and advertising. Living in a modern first 
country world provides us convenience and luxury. Not only are we trying to keep up to the Jone's next door, but we also 
find ourselves followed by marketers from streaming, social and other websites.

It is difficult for many of us to imagine that we could lose everything at a moments notice. That happens to everyone 
else, but not to us. Unfortunately in this year, many people are feeling the truth of this statement. Many have lost 
their jobs, while others have been required to take reductions in salary. It is expected that in the coming months many 
will be losing their savings, vehicles and or homes.

The stress that follows affects our health, our strength as well as our relationships. So how can we say any of **this** 
belongs to us if disease, fate, bad luck or death can separate us from any of **this** with just a moments notice?

### Conclusion

We can accrue an amazing amount of material wealth throughout our lives. Most give us pleasure for a short moment of 
time, while a special handful of our possessions can give us happiness for a bit longer. All of this is borrowed. The 
truth is, we only own *our lives* and there is a timer on our lives in this world.
