---
title: The Day In Review
description: Meditation for January 22, 2021
quotes: 
    - quote:
        content: "I will keep constant watch over myself and – most usefully – will put each day up for review. For this is what makes us evil – that none of us looks back upon our own lives. We reflect upon only that which we are about to do. And yet our plans for the future descend from the past."
        author: Seneca
        source: Moral Letters, 83.2
last_updated_at: 2021-01-22T07:00:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - clarity
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_6328.jpg
---

Bullet journaling is something that I have been doing on and off for just a few years. When actively journaling, this 
method works well for creating daily tasks and keeping track of what needs to be done and what gets shuffled around.

My work journal is filled with much more content than my personal journal, and this is because most tasks during the day 
are work-related. The personal journal is more of a collection of stories and feelings.

After reading today's antidote from {% daily_stoic %}, the light popped on in my head that I am not doing this 
correctly. While it is fine to journal the history of the day, the real magic can likely be found by journaling about 
what items were in my control and how they affected the outcome of the day.

Today I learned to ask questions such as *What bad habit did I curb today? How am I better? Were my actions just? How 
can I improve?*

### Conclusion

Meditation and journaling can be positive ways to reflect on a day, but if we want to grow, we need to ask ourselves the 
difficult questions. While journaling disappointment about an argument, for example, it would be prudent to ask *Were 
my actions just?* Perhaps we don't accomplish all the tasks we set out to complete. How can I improve? Question what
choices were made and the impact of those choices.
