---
title: Be Ruthless To The Things That Don't Matter
description: Meditation for January 3, 2021
quotes: 
    - quote:
        content: "How many have laid waste to your life when you weren't aware of what you were losing, how much was wasted in pointless grief, foolish joy, greedy desire, and social amusements—how little of your own was left to you. You will realize you are dying before your time!"
        author: Seneca
        source: On The Brevity Of Life, 3.3b
last_updated_at: 2021-01-03T05:48:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - clarity
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/IMG_C2723C6407B1.jpg
---

The word "no" has some powerful negative implications. The fact is that saying "no" has been profoundly positive in my
life. Unfortunately the word wasn't even in my vocabulary until middle age.

Its common in American life to covet what our neighbors have. There is a perception that friends and neighbors always
have *more* and *better* possessions. Being swept up in the materialistic race of dying with the most *things* is not
difficult if you never learn the word "no".

My finances as a young adult were abysmal and something had to be done. As a family we were gradually making more money,
but we were still struggling paycheck to paycheck. The first *"no"* I learned was in regard to buying on credit.
It didn't take long to pay down debt and all of a sudden we had some savings. The next *"no"* I learned was into small
purchases. Lunch here, dinner there, sale here, new toy there. It all added up so quickly, but after saying "no" things
began to change for the better. Now it is learning when to say no to matters that consume my time without providing a
return. Spending a weekend binging Netflix series is out. Spending time hiking a new park with the dogs is in.

### Conclusion

The power of *"no"* is freeing. *"No thank you"*. *"No, not for me right now"*. Without the word, your life can be
consumed and overwhelmed with frivolous time-consuming fluff. Stake out what is important to you. Say **"NO!"** and be
free. Say **"NO!"** and enjoy life.
