---
title: The Benefit Of Kindness
description: Meditation for October 17, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "A benefit should be kept like a buried treasure, only to be dug up in necessity… Nature bids us to do well by all… Wherever there is a human being, we have an opportunity for kindness."
      author: Seneca
      source: On The Happy Life, 4.2–3
last_updated_at: 2020-10-17T08:16:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - virtue
    - kindness
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/Y6bkmg-DRvaRcb970KME-Q.jpg  
---

The author really makes a point that with kindness you benefit others, but you also can receive a benefit in return. 
This could grow exponentially, but there is no guarantee that others will return the favor.

## Politics

The year that is 2020 has been surreal, the political divide in our nation has resulted in negativity. We live in a 
world where we can communicate with our loved one half-way around the world (Love You Dayton) in China any moment of the 
day. We can all share our thoughts. Unfortunately we can all share our thoughts.

When you look at what is being shared, there is little kindness. People sharing fear. People share lies. Where is the 
kindness.

It seems fitting today, I saw a meme posted by a friend. I did my best to find the actual quote and attribute the proper 
author (hope this is correct).

{% blockquote "Opinion is really the lowest form of human knowledge; it requires no accountability, no understanding. 
The highest form of knowledge, according to George Eliot, is empathy, for it requires us to suspend our egos and live in 
another's world. It requires profound, purpose‐larger‐than‐the‐self kind of understanding.", "Bill Bullard" %}

We have an opportunity to benefit. Both parties. 

When we seek to understand where they are coming from, we can become 
empathetic to their views. Unfortunately this cannot happen when the other party is spewing fear, hate, and lies.

If we can interact with each other with integrity, civility and honesty, we have the opportunity to change minds. With
the benefit of kindness we can develop empathy. 
