---
title: It's Easy To Get Better. But Better At What?
description: Meditation for October 22, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "So someone's good at taking down an opponent, but that doesn't make them more community-minded, or modest, or well-prepared for any circumstance, or more tolerant of the faults of others."
      author: Marcus Aurelius
      source: Meditations, 7.52
last_updated_at: 2020-10-22T07:37:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - virtue
    - kindness
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/7tTiI7WqSX-3EkBr3qX2yg.jpg
---

Reading the words of Marcus Aurelius, I was struck by how much this statement seemed to mirror our current political 
atmosphere. I recognize that supporters of both major parties appear to have a constant need to "take down" the 
opponent. What makes this particular cycle deplorable is that everyone is following the lead of the President. 

We don't look to help our neighbors, or if we do, it is only the neighbors who reflect us. Our hubris causes us to feel 
better than everyone else whom do not reflect us. We are becoming short-sighted when looking at the effect of our 
current actions. We have become biased and believe the faults of others are egregious while not contemplating our own 
faults.

While we may try to better ourselves with noble intentions, we can easily be steered towards more self-absorbed
intentions. About a year ago I started a journey to improve my health. The intention was to be more fit in order to 
enjoy a better lifestyle as I grew older. After nearly a year progressed, I slowly started to notice some physical 
changes. One negative item I noticed was my *love handles*. My intention was never to *look better* but to feel 
healthier. It was scary how my narcissism looked to take over my goal so easily.

The author of :daily-stoic had the simplest summary of this that is very fitting. 

::block-quote
Let's not confuse getting better at **stuff** with being a better **person**. 
One is a much bigger priority than the other.

#author
Ryan Holiday
::
