---
title: The Fountain of Goodness
description: Meditation for October 24, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "Dig deep within yourself, for there is a fountain of goodness ever ready to flow if you will keep digging."
      author: Marcus Aurelius
      source: Meditations, 7.59
last_updated_at: 2020-10-24T09:09:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - virtue
    - kindness
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/o67Uu1P7R9K6tQk9nd731A.jpg
---

I have had many blessings in life. It has taken me a long time to see that this is *goodness*. For myself, *goodness* 
was something that just happened upon you. You either had *bad luck* or *goodness* in your life.

I know there are many out there whom say "you make your own luck". I have subscribed to that as well. As a young adult, 
I worked hard, but *bad luck* seemed to follow what ever I did.

Later in life, my *luck* changed. Our family was healthy, jobs were solid, home, cars, etc. The year 2020 has definitely 
changed lives for most, but for me I really began to see the change a few years ago.

Examining my *bad luck*, I realized the bad luck was a consequence of some bad decisions. Those decisions at the time, 
were based not on what was good for my family or friends or others, but **me**. There was **goodness** all around me, 
but I think I was to busy wallowing with my defeats to see all of the goodness.

What I learned in the last few years.

1. Goodness does not always "happen". Most times you need to work hard to find goodness, but expect goodness will flow 
freely once found.
2. Bad luck is not always *bad*. The important is to learn from events and be honest as to what allowed the outcome.

While I don't subscribe that it is easy for all people to find *goodness*, as Marcus Aurelius says, "*…there is a 
fountain of goodness ever ready to flow if you will keep digging.*"
