---
title: Character Is Fate
description: Meditation for October 29, 2021
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "Each person acquires their own character, but their official roles are designated by chance. You should invite some to your table because they are deserving, others because they may come to deserve it."
      author: Seneca
      source: Moral Letters, 47.15B   
last_updated_at: 2021-10-29T07:55:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - virtue
    - kindness
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/W5Ryy_c7S_OgwUbMy1bDyA.jpg
---

The authors used the example of occupations to bring home this lesson about character. I thought it was very fitting 
for me for several reasons.

My experience has been interesting, but enlightening. Spending my young adulthood in a smaller city, the qualifications 
for many positions resolved more around education than character. I don't want to disparage this filter, but I concur 
with the authors of :daily-stoic that argue many fine candidates may not get opportunities.

I was fortunate and was offered an opportunity related to what I wanted to do and in short time proved that I could do 
more than produce content for websites, but could actually develop them. I did not have a complete education with 
software development as my core study, but I did have experience and more importantly **passion** for web development.

Moving to the Minneapolis/St Paul area, the hiring experiences have been an almost one hundred and eighty degree 
difference. Those hiring are more concerned with character and less concerned with aptitude. Employers want to know that 
you have the personality to *fit in* with the team. 

For me this is refreshing and a real blessing in so many ways. I am able to work with other developers that might have 
various experiences, but we all have one underlying goal. **Collaboration**.

Collaboration is such a positive work tool. From my perspective, the act of working with others allows me to learn so 
many new skills while also teaching me to be humble and giving.

### Conclusion

::block-quote
Character is destiny.

#author
Heraclitus
::

Good character can shape our destiny. We should temper our judgement of others based on their *accomplishments* and 
reserve our discernment as we witness their character. 
