---
title: A Selfish Reason To Be Good
description: Meditation for October 7, 2020
quotes: 
  - quote:
      content: "The person who does wrong, does wrong to themselves. The unjust person is unjust to themselves - making themselves evil."
      author: Marcus Aurelius
      source: Meditations, 9.4
last_updated_at: 2020-10-07T13:23:00
tags:
    - stoicism
    - virtue
    - kindness
categories:
    - meditation
    - stoicism
changeFreq: never
backgroundImage: https://d3iwoqnah6ycun.cloudfront.net/cNojyEfnTrKB_bmZ-o_K_A.jpg
---

I like to believe that I am a good person and will not intentionally *do wrong* or deliberately be *unjust*. It didn't 
take me long to reflect on how far I am from truly being a good person.

Anyone who rides in a vehicle with me on a regular basis could testify to my rage and foul language. I can think of so
many instances where I have blown up over what end up being minor inconveniences. Don't use your turn signal, you might
hear "What's wrong… your hand broken?". Don't use the center turning lane and you are almost sure to hear me question 
the drivers intelligence. Pass me only to cut me off for the exit ramp, you will definitely hear some foul language. 
Ignore the world while driving in the far left passing lane while you text your boo and I will for sure go ballistic.

This is just a small example of how my unjust thoughts get the best of me. These thoughts are a reflection of the evil
inside of me.

If asked to justify my reactions, there is no justification that can be found. Most of these actions are minor traffic
violations and ones that I have committed myself without malicious intent. So how does my swearing and wishing bad
intentions upon others help me? The answer is that it doesn't. I might find a minuscule amount of relief immediately, 
but nothing positive comes out of the outburst. In the end, I have let evil win out. I am reminded of my lack of 
discretion, void of fairness, need of high-mindedness, and absence of self-control.  
